Welcome Back fellow Movie Lovers. Today we Recap
the latest Amazon Prime Movie ‘The Tomorrow War’
featuring the talented Chris Pratt. So Buckle up,
Beware of spoilers and join us on our Journey in
to the Future to save mankind’s very existence!
The Tomorrow War Starts with Dan Forester (Chris
Pratt), a former soldier now science teacher
who’s at home watching the Final of the 2022
FIFA World Cup, when an anomaly interrupts
Brazil’s last minute winning attack.
The mesmerising anomaly spits out not aliens,
but soldiers from 30 years in the future,
bringing with them the devastating news that
Mankind is about to wiped from existence,
the only thing that can stop this from
happening is the people of the present.
It turns out WE are the Worlds Last Hope.
Through news reports it’s pointed out that only
50% of the military qualify to assist in the fight
in the future, and because of this a worldwide
draft will be called, signing up civilian’s form
all around the globe to ‘Jump’ in to the future to
assist the war, and though conscription only lasts
for 7 days, less than 20% of those that jump will
ever return from fighting the WhiteSpikes.
While sleeping, Dan is woken by his
daughter having a nightmare that her
family will be drafted into the War,
oh how right will she turn out to be!
It turns out everyone is devastated that the
World will in less than 30 years be destroyed,
so while teaching his class, Dan turns to his
class for a discussion to talk about anything. No
one wants to speak except for ‘Martin’ who loves
talking about volcano’s! He knows everything
about Volcano’s! I wonder how this will affect
things later in the movie….. It’s then Dan
receives a message as he’s about to be drafted.
While being tested for his Draft (this
is done by strapping him to a machine
and having him prodded and poked), Dan finds
out that he is due to die in 7 years’ time,
and because his children have already been
born he is made eligible to be drafted.
He then has a teleportation device pinned in to
his Arm, which will allow him to time jump to the
future and back after his 7 days of conscription
comes to an end, but only if he is still alive.
From here Dan returns home to break
the devastating news to his family,
if he tries to evade the draft his wife or
daughter will be forced to take his place.
Still trying to keep his wife happy he visits
his estranged father, who himself has PTSD from
Vietnam and abandoned his son when he was young.
Though able to remove the device, he doesn’t,
and Dan is forced to return home to say his
goodbye to his family, his daughter the most.
At training, they are given 7 days to train
in preparation, but are not allowed to see the
enemy in which they are likely to face. But the
good news there is no rigorous training, and they
can all basically wear whatever they want!
It’s here we meet a few new characters from
Charlie the quirky best friend who
is not cut out for fighting to Dorian
who is about to jump and start his 3rd tour!
But unfortunately, after less than 24 hours of
basically no training at all, an alert comes
through from the future to let everyone
know that The Last Research Centre in Miami Beach
is about to fall and every soldier is needed.
During the jump though a malfunction happens
and those that jump are dropped 100’s of feet
in the sky! Luckily for Dan and 20+ others
they land in a pool on top of a skyscraper!
Don’t worry, don’t think too much about
it and you will find yourself enjoying it!
Upon landing the team is immediately
contacted by a Colonel Who directs them
on their mission to save he ‘team’ of scientists.
Dan leads the way through the destroyed streets,
but when they arrive at the test Lab the team
has been killed but their bodies are still there,
meaning the Whitespikes are coming back. After
collecting some test Tubes they head out,
it’s here they encounter their first Whitespike.
After a tough encounter they are to rendezvous
for pickup, but at the last second the convoy
is attacked, leaving Dan and a small group to
find their own way out of Town.
After several sacrifices Dan,
Charlie and Dorian manage to escape, passing
out before waking up at a Command Station!
It’s here Dan finds out why Dorian keeps jumping,
he has terminal Cancer and has less than 6 months
to live and wants to die on his own terms.
It’s here Dan meets the Colonel who was guiding
them through Miami Beach, who turns out to be
no other than Dan’s now 30 years older daughter,
Colonel Muri Forester. Though it’s not the
happiest of Reunions as Dan finds out in
his future, he was to run out on both
his wife and daughter before his death.
After the unhappy re-union Dan joins his
daughter on a dangerous mission to capture a
Female Whitespike, they are bigger and
deadlier than the males and attract
all the males to her. It’s here Muri informs her
Dad that she’s brought him back for a reason,
one she will tell him when he needs to know.
During the mission to capture the Female,
Muri finds herself in danger and
Dan trying to become Dad of the year
jumps in to the Females pit to save his
daughters life, before they quickly escape,
she then proceeded to tell him how hard it was
for her to see him die when she was only young.
Back at their water base with the female
Whitespike, Muri and Dan use the time to
create a toxin that will kill the creature
with one injection! This does allow for Dad
and Daughter bonding, while Dan realises how
he’s more like his father than he realised.
Just as they create a toxin that
will kill off the creatures,
thousands upon thousands of Males swarm the base,
all while Dan only has a short while till his tour
of Duty is up and he’s pulled back to present.
Its now Muri tells her dad the reason she
brought him here, to help create the toxin and
take it back to kill the Aliens before the war
ever happens, saving the World in past but
stopping the future from ever happening.
As the Aliens swarm the base, Dan is trying to buy
enough time till he’s pulled back to the present,
in the fight though Muri is
mortally wounded and as she
is dragged to her death, Dan is pulled away.
He arrives back in the present a broken man, as
well as Charlie and Dorian who have both survived!
The future has been destroyed, the time travel
machine will no longer work, the future
is over…Dan re-unites with his family as a
broken man and the film ends with hope that
they can use the toxin to save the world…….
Oh wait your telling me that isn’t how it
ends? There’s still 40 minutes left? Ok Ok!
Dan and his wife realise the Aliens reached
earth years before they actually attacked
and through science and Martin the
volcano Kid, they know where they are!
Dan not getting help from the Government as the
world is in a crisis, finds both Charlie and
Dorian, and with the help of his own father and
those from the future who are stuck in our time,
head to where the Alien ship crashed years before.
After finding the ship and not wanting to wait
for help, they find their way inside, realising
the Aliens are a weapon of another Alien race.
As they start to inject the toxins the
Whitespikes start to wake up, Dan gets
out of the ship to where both his father and
Charlie have just let a female Whitepsike escape,
all while Dorian and the others go out in a
blaze of glory destroying the ship and all the
aliens except for the one that got away.
Dan and his father hunt down the last
before she lay an egg and after
nearly dying 278 times manage to kill
the last female Whitespike saving the World!
The government take the credit for saving the
world as Dan’s father meets his granddaughter,
and they all lived happily ever after.
Overall, The Tomorrow war is an enjoyable action
film mixed with brilliant visuals and a good bit
of humour. As long as you switch your mind off
to the inconsistencies and many of the paradoxes
you will have an enjoyable time! Though at just
over two hours is possibly a bit on the long side!
Have you enjoyed this Recap? If so why not
consider dropping a like and hitting that
Subscribe Button to catch our next recap! Is there
any movies you’d like a Recap for? Comment below
let us know, and you never know, it might
just be the next movie we do a recap for!
And until next time, take care,
stay safe and I’ll see you soon!